Adding rules of procedure (#154)
International-Data-Spaces-Association/IDS-RAM_4_0: documentation/4_Perspectives_of_the_Reference_Architecture_Model/4_2_Certification_Perspective/RulesOfProcedure/rules-of-procedure.md

4. The certifier must have sufficient knowledge in the areas relevant for certification.
In particular, the certifier shall have sufficient knowledge for certification in the following areas:
  * a. technical requirements for data security;
  * b. ISO/IEC 270xy standards (or equivalent);
  * c. ISO/IEC 15408 standard (or equivalent);
  * d. IDS certification procedure;
  * e. IDSA reference architecture.
5. Sufficient experience for certification requires at least four years (full-time equivalent) experience in the field of information technology and at least two years (full-time equivalent) experience as a certifier or at least four years (full-time equivalent) experience as an evaluator of products and/or organizations.
6. Certifiers must have the reliability required to perform their duties properly based on their personal characteristics, behavior, and skills.
7. Certifiers must be independent within the meaning of § 2.7 paragraph 3.
They shall carry out their duties in a non-discriminatory and impartial manner.
8. The certification body shall ensure that the certifiers it employs meet the requirements set out in paragraphs 2 to 7.

### §2.3 Evaluation facility      

> 1. Independent and technically suitable evaluation facilities can be commissioned to evaluate the operational environment of a participating organization or the components of a manufacturer in order to issue an IDS certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Independent and technically suitable evaluation facilities can be commissioned by the applicant to evaluate the operational environment of a participating organization or the components of a manufacturer in order to receive an IDS certificate from the IDSA certification body.
```

Reviewer: The old wording sounded like the EF issues the certificate.

Reviewer 2: I agree and integrate the clarification

    *Requirement (d) is relevant only within the scope of the operational environment certification.*

    *Requirements (e) to (h) are only relevant within the scope of component certification.*      

4. Evaluators must have at least four years (full-time equivalent) experience in the field of information technology and at least two years (full-time equivalent) experience in the field of testing IT products or information security. The activity as IT security officer or consultant in the aforementioned areas is not an activity within the meaning of sentence 1.

5. Evaluators must also have the necessary personal ability and reliability to carry out the evaluation.
These include:
  * a. Ability to deal with conflicts;
  * b. Ability to work as part of a team;
  * c. Knowledge of the English language;
  * d. Basic knowledge of project management    
6. Evaluators must be independent within the meaning of § 2.7 (3) and perform their duties in a non-discriminatory and impartial manner. They shall not evaluate an organization or component if there is a risk of a conflict of interest within the meaning of Art. 2.7 paragraph 4.

> ### §2.5 Accreditation      

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### §2.5 Approval      
```

Reviewer: Accreditation is only the correct term for the procedure described in the annex.

Reviewer 2: accepted and adjusted

1. The certification body and the evaluation facility shall demonstrate compliance with the requirements of these procedural rules, in particular, their technical suitability, within the scope of the commission or by means of recognition.

> 2. The certification body must be commissioned by the International Data Spaces Association (IDSA) to carry out certifications in accordance with these rules of procedure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The International Data Spaces Association (IDSA) acts as the certification body and therefore carries out certifications in accordance with these rules of procedure.
```

Reviewer: The IDSA can not commission itself to act as the CB (see also next change suggestion).

Reviewer 2: Since this would be a significant change to the (legal) responsibilities of IDSA and (external) Certification Body, I don't want to change it at this point - we would definitely have to discuss it in the WG if a change becomes necessary.
However, as long as we understand "commissioning" more in terms of "the IDSA empowers/authorizes the CB" (in German: Bevollmächtigung) and **not** as "the IDSA pays someone to do something", we can keep the current wording from my perspective

> 3. The certification body may only carry out certifications in accordance with these rules of procedure if a valid commission has been received.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. The certification body may use its own or external experts to carry out certifications in accordance with these rules of procedure. External experts may only carry out certifications if a valid commission has been received.
```

Reviewer 2: see comment above

> 4. Evaluation facilities require recognition by the IDS certification body for performing evaluations in accordance with these procedural rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Evaluation facilities require approval by the IDS certification body for performing evaluations in accordance with these procedural rules.
```

2. With the documentary assessment, the evaluator checks compliance with the requirements of the IDS on the basis of the information in the applicant\'s documentation.
3. Interviewing the applicant\'s staff or other persons involved in the provisioning of the evaluation item may be used to determine the facts of individual aspects and to verify the accuracy of the documentation.
In particular, it shall be used to verify aspects identified as critical by the evaluator. Inquiries can be conducted in writing or in person.
In any case, those concerning central aspects should be conducted as oral interviews.
Where a personal interview would be disproportionate, it may take the form of videoconferencing.
4. The on-premise evaluation shall include at least an evaluation of the procedures on the premises of the applicant or its subcontractors.

> 5. In the case of component certification, appropriate functional and security tests are conducted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. In the case of component certification, appropriate functional and security tests, including penetration testing, are conducted.
```

Reviewer 2: For the current revision, I would keep it as vague here as it is currently defined since we should discuss with the WG whether we want to add further details including mentioning of Source Code Audits and differentiating the Assurance Levels...

With regard to the implementation of individual activities, a sample of elements (e.g. individual passwords) shall be evaluated.
8. The sample shall be selected in such a way that the evaluation of the selected activities or elements provides an indication of the compliance with the requirement.

### §3.4 Recognition of certificates     
1. The certification body shall recognize relevant certificates for the object of evaluation or individual components thereof.
The evaluation of the covered criteria for the component named in the certificate is then not necessary.
However, it is necessary to evaluate criteria not covered by this certificate as well as the interaction of the recognized component with other components, in particular the interfaces relevant to that interaction.
2. If the applicant seeks recognition, the evaluation facility shall evaluate without delay whether and to what extent recognition can be granted.
3. The evaluation facility shall ask the certification body for a preliminary ruling on the recognition of certificates. The request shall be accompanied at least by the particulars and documents referred to in § 3.2 (4).

> ### §3.5 Assessment and evaluation report     

Reviewer: The term audit / audit report is sometimes used instead of evaluation / evaluation report in this chapter. However, at the moment 3.5 is only about the evaluation report, which should **include** information about all performed (on-site) audits. What the Rules of Procedure do not require at the moment is a separate report for each on-site audit. If this is wanted, it should be explicitly listed as its own requirement in 3.5. Otherwise, with my suggested changes, I would expect all relevant information from the on-site audit to be part of the evaluation report.

Reviewer 2: well spotted. I would agree that so far the report from the on-site audit was planned to the a part of the overall evaluation report and have accepted the changes accordingly

1. On the basis of the evaluation, the evaluator shall prepare an assessment of the operational environment\'s or the component\'s compliance with the requirements of the IDS in relation to a specific certification level.
This requires both an assessment of the fulfillment of the individual requirements of the IDS and of the fulfillment of the requirements of the IDS as a whole, each relating to a specific certification level.
2. If individual organizational requirements of the IDS certification for the certification level applied for are not met, these may be offset by other measures if the operational environment or the component thereby achieves the overall level of protection of the certification level applied for.
If the evaluation facility accepts such compensation, this shall be justified separately to the certification body in the statement of the overall result.
3. The evaluation facility shall draw up an evaluation report on the basis of the evaluation.

> The audit report shall include at least the following information:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The evaluation report shall include at least the following information:
```

> * a. the subject matter of the audit;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* a. the subject matter of the evaluation;
```

> * b. a description of the timing and scope of the audit, including the locations and premises where the audit was conducted;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* b. a description of the timing and scope of all performed, on-site audits, including the locations and premises where an audit was conducted;
```

* c. a brief description (a few sentences or keywords) of the implementation of each IDS requirement;
* d. the reasoned assessment regarding the fulfillment or non-compliance of the individual IDS requirements for the certification level concerned;
* e. the measures by which the evaluation facility has verified the fulfillment, in particular information on the evaluation method pursuant to § 3.3 paras. 2 to 6 and - if necessary for understanding - a justification for its use;
* f. the indication of the certificates to be recognized as well as a statement on the evaluation of the interaction of the components;
* g. a justification of the equivalence of certificates to be recognized within the meaning of § 4.5.
* h. the overall result with regard to the fulfillment or non-fulfillment of the IDS requirements for a specific certification level;
* i. the justification of the overall result;

> * j. a list of the audited documentation;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* j. a list of the reviewed documentation;
```

7. The evaluation facility prepares a evaluation report and sends it to the certification body.

## 4. The certification procedure   
### §4.1 Contractual basis      
1. The certification procedure is based on a contract between the applicant and the certification body.
2. The contract shall specify at least the following:
  * a. the certification item with details of all relevant locations;
  * b. the IDS certification criteria in the applicable version;
  * c. the evaluation facility which is to carry out the evaluation;
  * d. these procedural rules as the procedural regulation applicable to the certification;
  * e. the certification application including details of the certification level applied for;
  * f. the applicant\'s obligations to cooperate.

### §4.2 Requirements for certification     
1. The granting of the certificate requires an evaluation of the participating organization\'s operational environment or component by an evaluation facility in accordance with these rules of procedure.
The applicant shall designate the evaluation facility.

> 2. recognized evaluation facilities are listed in a list maintained by the certification body within the meaning of § 2.6.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Recognized evaluation facilities are listed in a list maintained by the certification body within the meaning of § 2.6.
```

3. If the certification body has reason to believe, on the basis of notification by the applicant, the evaluation facility or a third party or due to other circumstances, that the requirements for granting the certificate have not been met or no longer exist, it shall immediately take the necessary measures to determine whether the requirements are met.
In particular, the certification body may determine that an intermediate evaluation (in accordance with § 3.6) is necessary to maintain the certificate.
4. If the certification body determines that an intermediate evaluation is necessary, it shall set the applicant a reasonable period of time to carry out the intermediate evaluation.
The certification body shall clearly describe to the applicant under which aspects doubts exist as to compliance with the certification requirements.
The time limit may be extended at the request of the applicant.
5. The certification body may suspend the certificate for the duration of the assessment procedure.
In the case of suspension, the certification mark shall not be used. The applicant shall inform its customers of the suspension.

> 6.  The certification body shall take the necessary measures to comply with the IDS on the basis of its findings, if necessary on the basis of the interim audit report.

Reviewer 2: Adjustment necessary to correctly translate the original German sentence:
```suggestion
6.  The certification body shall take the necessary measures to ensure compliance with the IDS on the basis of its findings, if necessary on the basis of the intermediate evaluation report.
```
